BVA  
programme
 
–
 content
About the Program
DEPARTMENT OF VISUAL ARTS
About the Program - BVA (Bachelors of Visual Arts) 
B.V.A. (Bachelor of Visual Arts) is a four-year (8 semesters) undergraduate program. This program consists of one-year common foundation courses focused on basic art, the remaining three years focused on professional art and design courses with studio practice and training. The program is a combination of Theory, Theory cum Practical / Studio and Practical / Studio courses with practical skills and project works required for the potential leaders of the demanding art and applied art and design profession.  Student should take part in two educational study tours during the 
program. Apart from regular classroom study, the students are expected to spend a considerable amount of time on self-study. The curriculum also emphasized on live project-based learning, wherein the students work on projects as part of every course that they study.
This is an excellent professional intensive and extensive art of painting / applied art 
/  sculpture
 program that aims to produce dynamic and creative art professionals equipped with profound artistic and design skills, based on their creativity and uniqueness.
DEPARTMENT OF VISUAL ARTS
BVA (Bachelor of Visual Arts) - Applied Art
BVA (Bachelor of Visual Arts) - Painting
BVA (Bachelor of Visual Arts) - Sculpture
BVA (Bachelors of Visual Arts) – Applied Art
The Applied Art program mainly focused on the elements and principles of design, concepts, theory of advertising and strategy of product promotion.  Theory and studio practical on typography, illustration, layout design, branding, story board, media management and marketing, motion graphics, AI, photography, packaging design, UI and UX 
design, VFX, 2D and 3D digital studio through software applications. Experiencing the process of multimedia in indoor and outdoor and 
on line
 advertising commercials etc. Comprehensive project work, dissertation and documentation and portfolio will be presented in the viva voce for the successful completion. Periodic exhibitions, industry visits and exposure from eminent personalities will lead the students to present their works with confidence. The creative design knowledge acquired can be applied on to other fields at large. The budding aspirants to bring out the art applications, original design forms and the same can be used in the ever-changing trends in the society. 
BVA (Bachelors of Visual Arts) – Painting
The Painting program concentrates on the process of basic to advance skills with training from sketching, drawing, color, design, abstracts and adequate knowledge on art history, aesthetics and art appreciation. To understand the creative uses of drawing, oil color, watercolor, tempera, impasto, digital drawings through software and other media related to painting. Exposure to the elements of figurative and non-figurative composition 
further to explore competence in life study, portraiture, landscape painting, abstract painting, mural painting in traditional and nontraditional media.  Opportunities to know the various techniques of printmaking such as etching, lithography and wood-cut, 
lazor
 cutting, CNC, etc. The practical training allows to fine tune their creativity. Acquired talents and skills out of the program can be applied on to various fields as it required (such as textile, interior decoration, jewelry, cinema, commercial media, 
ceramics,publications
, industries, products and other design applications). The budding aspirants to bring out the original paintings and showcase periodically through art exhibitions and the same can be used in the 
ever changing
 trends in the society. 
BVA (Bachelors of Visual Arts) – Sculpture
The Sculpture program is designed to deliver intense theoretical knowledge and studio practical to explore their intuitive skillsets. To understand the behavior and properties of materials like various forms of clay, 
PoP
, wax, wood, metal stone (additive and subtractive materials) related to sculpture including drawing, whether resistant 
colouring
, watercolor, tempera and other media like metal casting, fiber casting, welding etc. 
Exposure to the elements of figurative and non-figurative compositions, abstracts further to explore competence in landscape painting, relief works and standalone sculptures, life study, portrait models, murals, stucco and installation art in traditional and nontraditional mediums. Opportunities to know the various techniques of digital modelling, 3D printmaking such as etching, lithography, prototypes and wood-cut etc. Acquired talents and skills out of the program can be applied on to various fields as it required (such as furniture, textile, interior decoration, jewelry, ceramics, urban spaces, industries and other design applications). The budding aspirants to bring out the original 3-dimensional works and sculptural forms to display at exhibitions and galleries and the 
same can be used in the ever-changing trends in the society.
DEPARTMENT OF VISUAL ARTS
Animation sector, Media sectors, Industries and advertising agencies recruiting Art Director, Art connoisseur, Art and design Consultant, Art Curator, Mural 
artist,Concept
 artist, Illustrator, Environmental artist, Urban artist, Graphic 
Designer, Production designer, Sculptor.
2D and 3D artist, 3D modular, UI and UX designer, Motion graphic artist, Character artist, Visualizer, Logo designer, web designer.
Graphic designer, Gaming artist, AR and VR Designer, VFX artist, Fashion sculptor, Interior decorator, Exhibition designer, Set designer, Story board artist.
Uniqueness of this program offers self-employment, fame, glamor, success.
Free-lance Artist and entrepreneur.
Commission works and project works and attracts higher pay packages to the talented and qualified.
Provides opportunity to work as extraordinarily artistic, imaginative, 
inventive and creative arts with human centric design for the future society.  
Able to work in research organizations and art, design and media industries all over the world. Also, students have the possibility of applying for central government employment in India through competitive tests.
Students can pursue master's degrees in fine arts and related fields at the world's top universities.
Jewelry designer, Toy designer, Ceramic artist Stain glass artist.
